MGMT-10196: feature enablement enhancement doc (#3744)
openshift/assisted-service: docs/enhancements/feature-enablement.md

---
title: feature-enablement
authors:
  - "@nmagnezi"
creation-date: 2022-05-02
last-updated: 2022-05-02
---

> # Feature Enablement

Reviewer: Let's make the title more descriptive.  How about "SaaS Per-Organization Feature Access"?

Author: Done

> The current OCM-based authorization scheme used by assisted service as a part of the SaaS operation does not support a rollout of certain features to a select number of users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The current OCM-based authorization scheme used by assisted service as a part of the SaaS operation does not support exposing features to certain users.
```

Author: Done

We wish to allow the following:
* An ability to expose selected group(s) of users to assisted-service functionality (in OCM, the term is `capability`).
* The user grouping should be based on the organization ID.

## Motivation

> Some features might be of interest to partners or early adopters.

Reviewer: Some features also may not be ready for public consumption.

Author: done

Exposing such features to a pre-determined group of users can help us to gather feedback and improve while keeping the other users with a production-level user experience.

### Goals
* Add a generic method to assisted service authorization middleware to assert against an organization's capability. The method should query OCM based on the payload and asserted capability name.
* Implement a functionality-specific assertion for `ARM`.

## Proposal

Initially, the authorization middleware should have a method to check if the user belongs to an organization with a particular capability.
Adding such a method would be the first step, both to assert organization capabilities, such as ARM support, and any other capability of interest in the future.

The API endpoints that need ARM support feature enablement:

### V2ListSupportedOpenshiftVersions API

* [ReleaseImage](../../models/release_image.go) has a `CPUArchitecture` attribute.

> * Expected to filter out ARM version if that capability is not included for the user organization.

Reviewer 2: iiuc, you're using V2ListSupportedOpenshiftVersions anyhow, and you just want to add the capability check in addition to it. That makes sense.

However, consider that it might make sense for V2ListSupportedOpenshiftVersions to return ARM if the openshift version supports it, and add another check for the capability.
Both would work. It is just a matter of how you want your API to behave like.

Author: Worth a discussion.
We need to think if it makes sense to have 2 APIs and what would be the use-case of each API in that case.
From what I understand, we aim to "hide" this functionality in case it is not allowed (thus the HTTP 400 response that Avishay mentioned above). Let's follow up on this.

Author: @oourfali 
Based on the other comments and the discussion we had: I understand that the expected behavior is to "hide" the CPU architectures that the user has no access rights to. Let me know if you think the same.

### V2RegisterCluster API

* [ClusterCreateParams](../../models/cluster_create_params.go) has a `CPUArchitecture` `attribute.

> * Expected to return `HTTP 404` if `ARM` got selected and that capability is not included for the user organization.

Author: @avishayt should we return 404 in this case? or something else?

Reviewer: 400, just like if a user would select any other string that's not in the enum (e.g., "foo")

Author: Done

### RegisterInfraEnv API

* [InfraEnvCreateParams](../../models/infra_env_create_params.go) has a `CPUArchitecture` attribute.

> * Expected to return `HTTP 404` if `ARM` got selected and that capability is not included for the user organization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Expected to return `HTTP 400` if `ARM` got selected and that capability is not included for the user organization.
```

Author: Done

Each of the APIs mentioned above should make use of the new authorization middleware method to make a decision based on the org capability existence/absence.

### Risks and Mitigations

* The lack of organization capabilities caching might have a SaaS performance impact. See [Open Questions](#Open_Questions).
* This enhancement is relevant for assisted SaaS, but should not change anything for on-prem. For that, we will include a feature flag to disable this when needed.

### Open Questions

Based on internal discussions, we understand that organization capabilities are not cached. we should:
1. Understand the performance impact, if any.
2. Find an alternative, if needed.

**Note:** The API endpoints involved in ARM CPU architecture are not expected to be called for many times by each user, but this might not be the case for other future capabilities.

### UI Impact

> The UI should be able to determine which CPU is supported and accessible to the user by querying The V2ListSupportedOpenshiftVersions API endpoint.

Reviewer: What about features where it may be less obvious?  Would the UI call OCM, or would the backend need to expose it?

Reviewer 2: As I see it, the UI should call AMS to check for that capability.

Author: does it currently do that? for other purposes?

Reviewer: Yes, the UI already calls OCM/AMS

Reviewer 3: we will have 2 flows for the UI for enable/ disable features: 1. call OCM 2. use /v2/feature-support-levels from the BE, right?

## Alternatives

> 1. Use OCM roles instead, which will group users based on their email domains.

Reviewer: Are there any benefits to doing this?  The drawback is that it doesn't exactly give us what we want.

Author: The drawback is the domain-based user grouping, which is less granular.
I brought this up because it came up in discussions.
